GFTile v0.09 Alpha Release
By Michael J. Mika - Genetic Fantasia
4/25/97

This is for preliminary testing and use.  Please back up all your
graphic data created with this tool in case it errors out in any
way.

To run, type GFTILE.EXE from the dos prompt or with RUN from
windows.  By adding a value after the command, you can increase the
map memory to be used.  For example, a 64k map limit:

C:>gftile.exe 64738 


Editor Commands
(Case Sensitive)

Esc     Quits GFTile
f       File Functions Menu
x       Cut Current Tile to the Clipboard
c       Copy current Tile to the Clipboard
v       Paste current Clipboard to Tile
E       Wipe Tile Area with Eraser Color
F       Fill entire map with current Tile
D       Delete tile from current pointer location on Map
        (Works only while pointer is over the map)
I       Insert tile into current pointer location on Map
        (Works only while pointer is over the map)
t       Type Alphanumerically onto the map (Enter exits)
        Alphabet taken from current Tile and up.
m       Map Menu
4,8,6,2 Scroll map
5       Go to map position 0,0
C       Change Core automatically.  Pointer must be over the map area.
        When pressed, the current map character is replaced by the
        current tile in the tile area.  All other characters are adjusted.
        This is necessary for graphic ripping.
+/-     Move left or right of the tile set.  Useful when piecing together
        maps.  Pointer isn't necessary to advance a tile.
a/A     Insert/Delete a column under the pointer in the map editor window.
Pgup    Map window up one page
Pgdn    Map window down one page
Home    Go to 0,0 in map window
End     Go to the last row of the map
CtrlHme Go to the first column of the map
CtrlEnd Go to the last column of the map
ArrwKys Scroll the current Tile in any direction.
X,Y,R   Flip X, Flip Y, Rotate 90 degrees left


File Functions Menu

1       Load a Tile Binary
        Load A Binary GB graphic format.  Hold down shift and press
        this option to load from current Tile.

2       Save a Tile Binary
        Save A Binary GB graphic format.  Hold down shift and press
        this option to save UP TO current cursor position.

3       Save TASM format.
        Saves the tiles into a text format parsed for TASM.
        (I.E. .DB $ff,$00,$cf,$20)

4       Directory
        Not implemented.

5       Load a Map Binary
        Load a map in binary format.  Note:  Map widths & heights are
        not stored.  Be sure to write down your W&H's when you save.
        (See Map Menu-Map Dims)

6       Save a Map Binary
        Save a map as binary.  This does not save the Width and Height.
        If you do not set your width and height, the map may look
        skewed when reloaded.  Simply set your Width and height and all
        should be corrected.

7       Save a Map in Tasm format
        Save the map into the parsed text format identified by TASM.
        Simply include this file into your .ASM file.


Map Menu

1       Change Core value.  This is the same as the C function
        during editing.  It is absolutely necessary for graphics
        ripping.  For instance:  Say the Source reads in a data
        file and adds a value of 5 to each value.  A becomes
        F.  Subtract five and it become A again.  So,
        CAR turns into HFW.  By entering a value of -5 into
        the core, it descrambles HFW into CAR on the map!
        If you use the HeroZero text demo, you will need to
        use this function if you load a screen in as a binary.

2       Change Map Dimensions
        You can change the map's width and height at any time.
        For your own knowledge, create a 10 x 10 map, draw something
        and then change the dimension to 20 x 20.. After looking at
        the scrambled map, change the dimensions back to 10 x 10.
        It corrects itself!

3       Not yet implemented.


The Tile Drawing Window

Left Mouse Button

        While within the grid, this plots your current
        pen color.  Press the Left Mouse button over
        1 of the 4 colors to change your current pen
        color.

Right mouse Button

        While within the grid, this plots your current
        eraser color.  Press the right mouse button
        over the four colors to choose a new eraser color.

The Tile Set Window

Right mouse Button

        While in the tile set, the Right mouse button will
        draw across the set with the current pen color.
        Not quite working correctly, but you can get the
        idea.

The Map Drawing Window

The map window is the same size as the viewable are on the
gameboy (So I think).  To extend beyond, simply scroll to the
desired area.  This is effective because A) I didn't have any
more room and I wanted people to see everything, and B) you
can see how players will see your map.

Left Mouse Button

        While within the map window, the left button
        draws the current tile.

Right Mouse Button

        While within the window, the right mouse button
        selects the tile under the pointer as the new
        tile.

Borders

        Map borders are drawn to signify you have reached
        maps edge.  Drawing on this border still
        affects memory.


Technical info:

Be gentle!  This is a QBASIC program!  UGH!  Maps only can have
up to 8k right now.  I know this is bad, but hey.  Plus, there
may be MANY bugs.  Please report any to me.

History:

4/25/97 Added extra functions to make life that much easier.  A
        lot of reported bugs fixed.  Keep sending e-mail with
        ideas.

4/20/97 What bugs I've noticed are now gone.  Many more I'm sure.
        Just needed this thing!  Hopefully it will implement all
        of your ideas.  As it stands now, it is pretty powerful
        for what it is.

4/19/97 Jeff's plea for a Map editor and my need for some organization
        forces me to write this program.

WHAT YOU SHOULD HAVE:

gftile.exe      The executable
gftile.txt      This document
font.bin        Yar 2.0 font for your pleasure

